Hi friends, I'm Felicia.
And I'm Diana and we are the Base Body
Babes. And I'm Sebastian, otherwise
known as the Australian Strength Coach.
Welcome to our very first episode of
Back to Base the podcast. We are super
excited. We are here to talk about
everything from strength training,
lifting weights, health, fitness,
nutrition, mindset and a whole lot about
business. And what we are are so lucky
enough to have access to is a lot of
high-level athletes, physiotherapists,
nutritionists, every type of person you
can think of that's at the highest level
in our space space, which is the fitness
industry, health space, the strength and
conditioning world.
We are very lucky that we have met a lot
of these people.
We are very lucky that we have a lot of
these people in our team. So, we
actually coach some pretty damn amazing
people. And what we are going to do is
give you guys access to these amazing
people that we have access to and give
you guys the best information
possible so that you guys not only
entertained by what we're here to talk
about, but you guys can take something
home and
I guess be a better person, be a better
lifter, be a better athlete.
a better coach. We have a sick lineup of
people.
Yeah, so but but before we introduce you
to our sick lineup of guests, we're
going to introduce you to ourselves.
Yes, we are. Why don't you start first,
Sebastian? Well, if you say so, I will
start myself. Okay, so my name is
Sebastian Orive.
A lot of people see me on the street and
they they call me Australian Strength
Coach. Funny thing, that's just my
Instagram name, but I guess that's how
it goes these days with social media.
People know your Instagram name rather
than your actual name, but you can call
me either and I'll respond to you.
But all that is, that's just a business
name. We'll talk about that at another
time, but but that's all it is.
Australian Strength Coach is
personal trainer. I have been in the
industry You don't say personal trainer.
Not anymore. I don't know. I don't I
don't even say it. Best strength coach
in the world. I don't even say anything.
Your wife can toot your horn.
My wife can toot my horn. So, I heard
horn and I'm going, "What?"
Isn't it toot your horn? Yeah, toot my
toot your horn. I just heard your horn.
I'm like
I'm not I'm going to toot your horn and
say you're the best strength coach in
the world.
to it, but actually sometimes I just
call myself a professional plate loader
because a lot of people think it's such
a glorious job to be a strength coach
and all of these things. And and you
should see some of Well, you have seen
some of the stuff that we have to do.
We've literally got to
cook for people, load people's plates,
clean people's [__] up after them. And
and and anyhow, that's that's going off
on a tangent, but anyhow, that's what I
do. You're more like a PA. Kind of.
Like realistically, that's what you you
you're someone's [__] kicker. We're
going to do a whole lot of [__] kicking
in Ohio in a couple of days, but we'll
get to that.
Yeah. But for now, so I guess I did
start as a personal trainer. I started
by accident. It was my interim job. I
was always told growing up there was no
money in the fitness industry. I had
access to a lot of very successful
businessmen and I met this one fellow
who was in the building industry and he
said to me, "What do you want to be when
you're older?" And I said,
"I've got this love and passion for
fitness industry." And he said, he kind
of laughed and he said, "There's no
money there.
Don't do that.
There's money in the building industry.
That's where you should be." And I
thought, "You know what? You're kind of
right. I do want to be successful when
I'm older." Like who who doesn't want to
be successful?
So, I did want to be successful. So so,
I'm all ears. You're a successful guy. I
want to hear what you've got to say. And
he said, "Look, I've got a friend of
mine who's got this you know very
successful business and they're looking
for people. Would you be interested?"
And I said, "For sure." So, he he after
a few interviews, he employed me. This
is my my
footstep into the
the world of success, so I thought,
which was the fitness the building
industry.
Anyhow, I was not very good at my job
because I hated it.
And
I was made redundant probably after
about 2 years or so. I was a facilities
coordinator. So, I looked after the
maintenance for commercial buildings. Uh
It was like you know, I had to wear a
suit and tie and it really sucked. And
so, I was made redundant.
So different to what you do now.
Damn, I could not think of anything
worse.
You couldn't wear your cool kicks and
your trackies and your shorts and your
t-shirts and your singlets. I could not
do that. Imagine
having to not like you know, wear a suit
and tie. Like I I do like you know,
dressing up every now and then. We went
to a wedding the other day, looked quite
sharp, but you do that every day.
A suit once a once a year for you is
about it. Yeah, I reckon. So so,
anyhow, I was made redundant and I was
quite upset about it, but except I got a
good redundancy payout.
So, I had time to myself to assess or or
find my my next job, which was of course
going to be in the building industry.
And I had a friend of mine who was
studying his his certificate to become a
personal trainer. He said,
"You know, while you're finding your
real job, why don't you come and hang
out with me? You love fitness and
everything
you know, everything related. Why don't
you come and and just study the course
with me, keep me company?" So, I
thought, "You know what?
Let's do it." I've got nothing else to
do, right?
I've got nothing else to do. So, he
said, "As soon as you find your real
job, uh go back to it. But in the
meantime, just come and study with me."
So, I thought, "You know what? Let's do
it." Okay, studied the the interim
course to become a personal trainer,
which is certificate three. That took me
6 months.
Uh after I got this, I got a job in a in
a commercial gym, Fitness First.
I'll be completely transparent here. I
was earning 70 bucks an hour, which at
that time, you know, I was I was you
know, just out out of school. I think I
was like 21 years old, something like
that. And 70 bucks an hour, it took me a
couple of months till I was on about 30
hours of PT. So, do the math. That's
just over two grand a week. For a young
adult, that's not bad, don't you
was really good money back then. We were
like cheering.
Right. And there was no urgency
We felt guilty. Like how can you be
charging these people $70 an hour? That
is ludicrous. Right. Right. So, it's
like there was no actually at this point
there was no urgency for me to to
continue to look for my real job in the
building industry because it was not bad
money. And then you know, 30 30 hours
turned to 35, turned to 40, turned to I
had some weeks which were 50 hours, but
that was pretty hard work. It's not like
a 9:00 to 5:00 job. It starts at 6:00.
There's gaps in between. Anyway,
so so after a few years, I think um
you and I got engaged. Felicia. Felicia,
that's you.
The wife. The wife, the blonde one, the
girlfriend. The blonde one. And so, we
got engaged and at that point I was in
the fitness industry. I was I was
earning decent money. Like a few grand a
week, that's pretty good.
Yeah. You know, it was enough to hold
your head up high, you know, shout a few
drinks on the weekend and do all of
those things. Not that we drank. Let's
be real. Well, you know, we were going
to dinners and things like that.
Yeah. And anyway, it was it was enough
to to get us by like really comfortably.
Like we got money.
You know, not not we're not millionaires
or anything like that, but it was okay.
And and at that point when we were
engaged, I thought, "You know what? I I
do want to go back to that whole thing
of being successful when I grow up."
And so, I wanted to be good at my job.
So, I was I was looking around and I
thought, "You know what? I think that
this is actually not a bad industry to
be successful in. How do I get better?"
And that is by studying.
And I wanted to be good I I found a hole
in in
in my area. There was a lot of people
that were injured or had some type of
dysfunction. I realized that there was a
big need for rehabilitation in my space.
So, I went and and spent a lot of money
with a lot of mentors and also did a lot
of
education.
Where I taught myself how to
rehabilitate people. So,
I went from a
you know, just PT doing an hourly rate
to to wanting to specialize in
rehabilitation. From here, I started
noticing a trend that a lot of my people
that I was rehabilitating were getting
very very strong. So, people were coming
to me with sore backs, sore knees, sore
whatever and they ended up with my
training methodologies having great
squats, bench presses, deadlifts.
Anyway, so
long story short, I got into a point
where myself and a lot of my
my clients were really really strong. We
were actually the strongest in the gym.
Up until we got to the next point in my
career, which was
let's go and compete in what we're
lifting weights with and and do this
whole thing of powerlifting.
No, we hadn't even heard of
powerlifting. I had never even heard of
it.
No, I thought, "Wow, that's a sport with
like really strong guys." Yeah. I didn't
think girls. I didn't think girls. No.
No, like no offense.
No, but I didn't really We didn't know
anyone that was doing that.
must be a beast. You must be a beast to
be a powerlifter.
In the fitness industry, the only
strength sport was considered like a
fitness model or I guess strongman, but
no women were in that. But for women, it
was really just fitness models.
not what we did. Like that many years
ago, so 17 years ago, you train weights
if you want to build muscle or you do
cardio if you want to lose fat. That's
all there was in the gym for me. Yeah.
So, strength training was actually a
quite a new concept and rehabilitation
training was was quite a new concept.
Anyway, years on, so that was my first
gym
my first place that I worked out was a
commercial gym called Fitness First. I
had access to a thousands of members.
And it was actually and millions of
dollars worth of of gym equipment. It
was actually a really good place to
start. So so, anyone at home that wants
to get a a head start in fitness
industry, actually it's really great
place to start in a commercial gym.
You've got so much access to like I
said, a lot of people and a lot of
equipment and you're not really paying
that much for all of that. Moving
forward. So, after about 10 years of
working at Fitness First,
I don't know if I want to say that I
outgrew the space or I got sacked. You
got sacked. I you know, let's call a
spade a spade. Sacked.
sacked. Fired.
I got I got fired.
You got fired. So, the way they said it
to me very politely was we're not going
to renew your contract.
Done.
Sacked. See you. So,
door closed.
So, what I'll tell you the reason why.
We kind of changed you know, when I
thought I was a hardcore powerlifter. We
did the whole back slap thing and the
chalk and and the hogging of the
equipment thing. So embarrassing.
Looking back, it was embarrassing.
Looking back, it was embarrassing. Like
douchebag. Douchebag. That was me. I'll
admit it. We thought we were pretty cool
cuz we thought we were powerlifters.
Anyway, moving forward, we went and
started working at another little
strength facility. And that strength
facility, the same feedback. The
feedback was that we were a little bit
intimidating for the type of demographic
that they were trying to attract.
You definitely were.
So, these were friends of mine. So, what
they did for me is they said to me, "You
know what? I don't want to, you know,
kick you out on the street. We know that
Fitness First didn't work for you." Um
and we know that your next step is to
open your own space. So, why don't you
stay working here up until you open your
own space?" So, that was a very nice
thing that they did for me.
Um and that
I don't know how many people would
actually do that for their friends, but
that that was lucky that we were
friends. Uh that that is I'll give him a
shout-out. That's That's Rad and Yianni
at Unity Gym. Um and they allowed me to
open my space, which was just down the
road. And actually, that's where I
started working with two chicks called
Felicia and Diana, and they're from the
Base Body Babes. And we went into
business, and that's you girls.
That's us. And that's when
That is us. That's when we started our
first um our business venture together,
which was opening gyms. Well, how about
we just tell everybody who's listening
who we are?
Tell us who you are. Actually, we're
sisters. We are sisters.
ever believes us. No one ever believes
us cuz we have different colored hair
and green eyes, and I'm like the dark
little brunette, but we are really
sisters. We were born and raised in
Australia to Greek Cypriot parents.
Yeah. But what we do is we're personal
trainers.
We're health and fitness experts. We
specialize in training women with
weights. No boys. None allowed. No boys
allowed. You used to have boys that came
and trained. Now, I used to think that
was a little bit weird. Didn't he train
I would not train a boy. I'm married.
No, but did he train boys? Did he train
boys?
I did.
You always told me that it was weird. It
is weird. It is weird. It's fine. Okay,
you're in business with me, and they
come and choose you to train them. Why?
Cuz she's hot. I know why.
You don't have to answer. Anyway, keep
moving. Oh god. Well, we own two gyms,
Base HQ. This is where we are at the
moment.
it out. This is You'll be able to see it
cuz we're video recording this as well.
Base HQ. And we also have Base Body
Studio, which is our female only
uh training facility just for our babes.
So, this isn't the first gym that we we
opened. That's gone now. No. This is
This will be our fourth one upstairs.
So, we started with Base Gym in North
Sydney.
three and four. Yeah, we then went
opened Base Body Studio in Kensington,
which was the female only. The first
space was was where we all came together
and tried to really make it work.
Exactly. Um which was where we tried to
do our our um genius idea of bringing
men and women in the same place in
harmony, working together, where we had
the you know, entry-level females with
high-level male athletes grunting and
and and carrying on. Look, I didn't mind
it, but it's not the best environment
for um for most women. We know that now.
We do know that now.
why
We opened the next gym.
Which is why we have the female only
facility.
Exactly. Yeah.
No boys allowed. Not even me. I'm not
allowed up there. Exactly. Exactly. Um
Yes.
And then from there we opened up our
third gym. So, we've now closed Base Gym
Sydney, and we are now in Marrickville,
Base HQ, and we are opening our fourth
gym upstairs, which will be the studio
again, so for females only. So,
basically, let's talk a little bit about
how we got started. So, for those of you
who don't know who we
are
The Base Body Babes are Felicia and
Dinny.
But Felicia got into the industry when
she gave birth to Sebastian's child.
So, basically, Dinny and I had always
liked training, and ever since Sebastian
and I had started dating back in the day
when I was 17 years old. So, I was 19
years ago. Do the math, guys.
Yeah, I was 16. We would all train
together in the gym, which was amazing.
Let's Let's give some perspective. I'm
38 now. Do you want us to say how old we
are? No. Well, you don't have to.
All right, whatever. They can just
literally work it out. You can work it
out, but no, Felicia is 36. I'm 35. Uh
but hold on, you didn't actually train
Felicia. No, he
trained alongside. No, no, no. We were
training partners to begin with.
Kind of. You liked me in the beginning.
I I liked I liked I liked you as a
person, but you didn't like me as a
person telling you what to do. It's like
It's like, "Let's do this exercise." And
you're like, "Who are you to tell me
what to do?"
And what husband and wife like to be
told what to do? So, so so you know
what? We've got tips today on on
business, but let's just give one quick
one for relationships.
Partners that train together
Don't stay together.
not be partners anymore.
We've done all right. We've had our
moments where we're like training
together, not training together, but we
did start training together.
Yeah, we we did. We did. But now we
train in the same room on the other end.
Yes. And then he'll maybe walk past and
give me a side eye. Just look at me from
the side and then kind of give me like
one of those nods. Eh, it's all right.
Yeah, but then it's like, "Okay, you
know, if I say fix this, what do I get?"
But I did that. You growled at me. But I
didn't do it for that set, but I did it
on the last one. You growled at
it. You missed it. Look down below.
They'll be in the comments. I started
training with Sebastian when I was about
17.
Didn't Dinny and I work well together in
the gym space? Yeah, but I'm quite fine.
That's why Dinny is the strong sister,
and she can squat 140, 50 kilos. 140
with sleeves at 50 kg body weight.
And 160 kg deadlift at 50 kg body
weight. And I'm yet to hit a 100 kilo
squat, which she tells me I told Felicia
if she doesn't get it I told her if she
gets a 100 kilo squat, I'll post her on
my Instagram Wow. Mate, don't try and
hold that against me. You've posted me
so many times.
to need to insert the uh clapping hands
here. Clapping hands, band, clapping
hands, cheering. All right, give her a
second.
Well, I will clap when she gets it.
All right. Well, No, you can't Dinny,
don't clap. Don't clap. She hasn't done
100 kilos yet. She's not
So, the way we the way all of this
Dinny's the strong one.
Felicia like what I said.
I'm not strong at all. You're so strong.
I think you're strong.
Okay, when we talk about strength
standards, let's get
Should we talk about your strength
standards on another day, but literally,
they are not that easy
Look, I've been counted as strong people
No, but that's not what I do anymore.
So, I used to Okay, I used to train
general population, anyone who would be
willing to pay me for my hourly rate.
That's who I would take money from. I
didn't discriminate like you girls have
a women-only business, so therefore you
discriminate
against against boys. And uh but I
didn't do that, but nowadays, so my my
business has evolved very much where I
don't actually really charge personal
training anymore. I just have a team of
athletes that I work with, and and I'm
their coach, and I guess you could say
they're my coach as well. We're just a
team, and we're all really, really
strong. So, that's who I'm exposed to.
So, I do have access to a lot of strong
people, and
girls that squat 100 kg, although I
think it's amazing, I do have access to
a a lot of people that can do that.
That's still not enough. So, I'm going
to get there. I'm going to get my 100
kilo squat. I'm going to sit there like
a little like kid in a candy shop, being
so excited that my husband's going to be
proud of me for once. And we're waiting
for him to like cheer and high-five and
give me a kiss. And he's just going to
go I reckon. And he's just going to go
That's all right. Thanks, Dinny. He was
proud of you when you gave birth to your
kid.
proud.
You're proud of me, huh? I you were
proud of me. Okay, okay, move move move
forward. Moving along.
So, I don't get a fist bump even from
you when I do a big lift.
She's walked off. She's put her phone
down. She's walked off.
She's doing good things. It's like I
don't even know what's good anymore.
Everything you do is great.
I recognize This is the life of working
with your family.
Okay, so so so moving forward, so
Dinny's the stronger one. Thank you.
Okay. And Thank you for the pump up.
Look, they're you know, they both train.
They both do all their stuff, but yeah.
I'm so proud of my sister. I love that
she's so strong.
so cute, mate. I will always say that
she's the strong one. You're so strong
in other ways. Okay, so what about How
did the Base Body Babes come about? You
weren't always the Base Body Babes. So,
back No, so let's go back. Let's rewind.
I think I'm going to start with So, I
have a teaching background. I have a
Bachelor of Teaching, and I specialized
in early childhood. And you, Felicia,
have a degree in
a Bachelor of Design and a Bachelor of
Design.
A Bachelor of Design majoring in
interior design. So, I love all things
design-related. So, I think when I was
teaching, you were pregnant. No, you had
just given birth. Wait, let's start that
part again.
Where did we start? 2010,
I gave birth to our little one. So,
she's just turned 10, so it's been a
while in the industry, but it was about
a year after I gave birth that I wanted
to get back into training, and that's
actually when you did train me. Mhm. You
did like me then for training purposes.
And he trained me.
I was going to keep out of this.
Tell your story. Tell your story. We
trained together, and I got back into
the best shape of my life
post-pregnancy. And then I begged you to
bring your little one to my child care
center, which you did eventually. You
were working in a child care center at
the time. I had already
I was the principal. I love that you
call me the principal.
Yeah, I was the principal. I was a
director of a child
Yeah, but listen to the
pal. The pal principal puts a p a l in
principal.
Okay. Did you get it? Anyway, I was the
director of a child care center, which
Felicia and Sebastian brought their
little girl to. And I had actually
already studied um
fitness and nutrition for children, and
then I did all my certifications for for
fitness as well. But again, not because
you wanted to have a career in the
industry, but because you're a fitness
buff. Yeah, I was um I had quite the
passion for it, actually. You were my
training buddy. I absolutely loved it.
And then Felicia came to the kindy, and
all the moms would look at her and just
go, "I need to look like that. How did
you get into that shape straight after
having a baby?"
of you. You both look the same.
Definitely looked at you as well. And I
was like, "Credit to you. You had a
baby. I did not. That's true.
That's true. Um so some of the moms
actually I mean I was training myself
and you were training with me at the
time, but some of the moms were asking
us if we would train them. So we decided
to run some outdoor boot camps across
the road from the kindy that we were
working at at the time out at Queen's
Park in Sydney.
Which was pretty fun.
We did and we called it Super Moms in
Training and we specialized in training
moms with weights in the park. We would
go down to the park every morning after
school drop off and train
all the moms from the child care center
and we were doing 6:00 a.m. sessions,
7:00 a.m. sessions and 9:30
a.m. sessions.
And we did that for a good 2 years in
the park and then we outgrew that space
which Before we outgrew that space, we
decided that
mom that non-moms women who hadn't had
babies wanted to train with us as well.
So we rebranded.
We did. So we
from Super Moms in Training to Fit
Chicks in Training and then from Fit
Chicks in Training we actually some I
was going to swear then. Some guy from
some guy from Queensland
owned the name or something like that.
So we and sent us a letter saying that
if we didn't change our name that he was
going to sue us. So we decided that we
needed to change our names.
And we wanted to come up with a brand
that would fit everybody and base just
kept coming up.
It did.
Yeah, it was just a word that we always
used to say. But but
before you go there, you guys had
developed quite the brand at this point.
So Fit Chicks I remember walking down
the street and people are having their
heads out of the car screaming Fit
Chicks. That is so funny. I don't
remember that.
Yeah, you had a brand. You had the
Instagram thing happening. You had a few
hundred thousand followers. So it was
actually quite an important Actually it
was a little bit of a disaster at first
that
you were potentially going to be sued
for your name. So you had to change it.
upset about changing our name to Base.
You guys you guys had a a successful
brand and then you were told you not no
more. You got to shut it down.
I know. So it's not really shut down.
You have to rebrand. So it was quite a
stressful time I remember. It was. So we
had to change the name and I I remember
driving in the car going what are we
going to rename ourselves? Who are we?
And Sebastian always spoke about base
and building a foundation and we just A
pyramid will only peak as high as the
base is wide. True.
So so people that would come to us and
say you know what can you offer us?
They'd look at strong people and say I
want to be that strong. They look at fit
people and say I want to be that fit.
Well, you can't just walk in and and
start training and be that strong or be
that fit or achieve your goal straight
away. You need to build a base before
you
you peak your pyramid so to speak.
Exactly. So so everything every time we
told
any one of our methods we would mention
building a base. So that's a word that
just came up so much. So that was part
of our brainstorming procedure was
something that contains the word base.
Base. And then we wanted something that
was catchy
and something that we could call our
girls as well. So we wanted to create a
community of women and we were like what
can we call them? What can we call our
girls? And we wanted it to kind of flow.
So we came up with Base Body Babes and
that's how it was born and we have never
looked back. Yeah, I think it's pretty
cool.
Yeah, it's cool. We love having our Base
Body Babes. And then from there
everything the whole business everything
is just like
so we got Base Gym.
We've got
What's the name of that podcast? Back to
Base. Back to Base the Back to Base the
podcast and we at that point when we
mentioned that we had outgrown the gym
uh the park, we had moved into our new
space Base Gym in North Sydney and we'd
also opened up a whole foods cafe called
Base Fuel. So this this was all at the
same time. So I'd outgrown or got sacked
from my places. You outgrew the park.
What so so outgrew the park? Okay, so
there's only so many trips you can take
in dad's ute
with like a hundred kilos worth of
weight in the back before you actually
This is important to know because a lot
of people do have their outdoor boot
camp kind of style of Which is a really
great way to start. It was amazing while
we were there and it and it did last a
while, but as our babes got stronger
there just wasn't enough weight. So how
would you get someone to squat? Paint a
picture. Oh, well like ultimately under
a barbell, but How would you get How
would they get up to a squat?
We were putting that barbell on their
back, on their front for front squats.
you have to clean the bar? Pretty much.
And put it on their back. Yeah. So
you're up to you know like 30 kg
chucking it on people's backs. Fine, but
but the stronger babes I think we had up
to like 50 kg.
So you have to do a clean every time you
do a session?
Every time the coach I was ripped.
You still kind of are.
But yeah, that was kind of like it's not
the best job when you have to pick up
that much weight.
Oh, it was really so taxing. I was
literally training myself for hours and
hours whilst I was
coaching the women.
Now that's a plate loader. Yeah.
That's a professional plate loader.
So yeah, we we needed to be able to
progress our girls with their own
weights training and for ourselves it
just wasn't something that was
sustainable for much longer because we
were doing the early mornings. We had
borrowed dad's ute. We had already
destroyed it with all of the weights in
the back. It literally like would drag
on the ground.
On the back tires with like flat
permanently.
There was so much weight that we were
schlepping to the park every day.
Yeah. So the main reason we moved was
because we were limited.
Yeah, and we did we did it ourselves.
Massively official. So then it all
worked out well for
It all came together at the same time
where we decided to open the gym
together. Mhm. And what was the original
plan for our Base Gym? So we had The
original plan was obviously I had a
personal training business.
Mhm. We wanted to have members.
We all did and we wanted to run group
classes for women as well. Group
classes.
And we wanted Yeah, a full membership
gym and a cafe.
we thought we we had a big interest in
food. Well, you did particularly because
of raising our daughter.
Mhm. You wanted to I had a really strong
focus on nutrition. Yeah, but it was the
style of food. It was just like you know
the the refined sugar free, gluten free,
health food snacks
very very particular back then. Not not
so much now.
organic And and that's what you wanted
to build our
nutrition business. So that was Base
Fuel which was part of Base Gym
originally. And it was a really great
idea because
We're coffee drinkers as well. So we
love to have our training session with
protein shakes and smoothies and and a
coffee like water.
built the cafe for us.
Yeah, pretty much. But what what more
could you want? Like how amazing. And
that's how we build everything. We built
the gym for us. We built the the cafe
for us. It was everything that we
wanted. But if we wanted it, why
wouldn't other people want it? And that
was that was the idea of it.
And we were in a prime location. So it
was a good spot for a cafe. It worked
really really well. The cafe was
actually a really good business. We'll
go into that later on. The pros and
cons. education that kind of came
unexpectedly, but that was a huge part
of the business. business as well.
It was a huge part and it still is.
That's something So the cafe is no
longer but the education is definitely
Yes, a big part. a big part of our
business now. Yeah. But but that was
actually yeah, we originally that wasn't
our intention. Our original was just
yeah, we're just going to have gym
members, personal training, cafe, kick
ass. Yeah. Until all of our girls came
into the gym and then there was so many
big guys walking around and it was still
quite an intimidating space for women.
Absolutely. It it was not very inviting.
I'll I'll admit that. So so paint a
picture, you know, imagine being a girl
the first time you ever step foot on the
gym floor or never lifted weights before
and you've got heavy metal or or loud
rap music playing
I still hate that vibe. Big boys with
tattoos, hundred plus kilos, walking
around with their shirts off, stink like
[__]
When we started Base Body Babes, our
whole aim was to empower women to get on
the gym floor and not be intimidated by
the weights room. I guess when we first
started training with you even we were
really nervous to get onto the gym
floor. We had no idea what to do. Having
me made it a little bit easier.
We're all together and we're trying and
that's that's
And we employed personal trainers. Well,
Danni employed a personal trainer from a
very young age just to get the
what to do. So for us that was a really
important part of building our brand was
ensuring that women were given the tools
they needed to be able to train safely,
efficiently and effectively. So
Originally
and it just created a safe space for
them to be able to do that from.
but then they had all the big guys.
I had So it was it Originally the way
that I saw it was you girls were friends
with all the big guys so that they would
see that it's actually safe to be
friends with these guys as well and we'd
all just be in this happy space
together. Yeah. But that's just never
into their corners.
They would go into their corners and and
like to the point where I know that
there's females I don't even say
females. There's people out there that
don't even want to be looked at.
So it's like you turn around to give
encouragement and say great set and they
get They're like don't look I said don't
look at me. Don't look at me.
So so So here's another tip, a take home
point. There is a need for female only
facilities in this world.
Definitely. Okay, there's going there's
never going to be a time where a hundred
percent of women are going to be
comfortable around other men. For many
reasons. You know, confidence,
insecurities,
religion. Yeah. Um you know, some
lots of lots of different reasons, but
we've recognized that that's how it's
going to be. So therefore we have a
female only space.
And And it's epic and our babes thrive
in there. It's a it's a pretty cool
community.
You've created something pretty damn
good. Yeah. And yeah, that's right.
Those chicks wouldn't train with me if I
paid them. No. No, and I think I'm a
pretty good trainer. You're amazing.
It's a funny thing. But but anyway,
that's just how it is. That's just how
it goes.
Okay, so you've got So so we went from
you know, this idea of having the
beautiful cafe with all of the food and
coffees that we wanted and the women you
know harmoniously living with men and
and in the same space and everyone
laughing along and carrying on and
getting strong together. So no more
cafe. No. No no more men and women. But
we do but we had
we had the group training for women.
Yeah, so see this space.
like 6:00 a.m. before everyone got
there. Before the boys woke up.
Yeah. Yeah. So so we do
are so precious and you all train at
like 10:00 11:00 a.m. which is like the
hour of power which went for like 3:00
to 4:00 hours.
funny? Well, that's the type of that's
my demographic. But let's just talk
about it from a business perspective.
How many people are there? In
our gym?
In that in that hour of power.
10 people tops.
You can't have a business based on 10
people. No. So that's that's the
evolution of our business. It ended up
that we're we're thinking that it's this
this awesome boys club where we're going
to you know all succeed together, be
really strong together. Um but yeah, the
money-making side of that That is not
work. That's not that's not how you make
money. If you if you want to have a boys
club in your gym Yeah, if you want to
have a boys club in your gym and you
want to spend that much money on prime
real estate, something's got to give.
Yeah. And and that's one of our life
lessons as well. What is Let's paint a
picture of what Base Gym was. So it was
strength based. So weights only, no
cardio machines. It was we spent so much
money on beautiful dumbbells, all Eleiko
equipment. Which you see back here. You
can see that.
here.
Uh Watson which we had imported from the
UK.
Watson dumbbells in the facility.
Everything was the best. The best
equipment that money could buy, we had
it. So the same barbells and plates that
you see in the Olympics and the world
championship powerlifting competitions,
the best dumbbells in the world. Uh you
know, we had you know, you with your
design background made sure that the
finishes were beautiful and and the cafe
everything was and it cost money, right?
cost money. So we're going to get to
that with one of our tips later on. We
are. So at this point we have
the two gyms.
Yeah. We still had the cafe. Which the
cafe had its benefits. It paid for our
rent for the first few years which was
awesome.
Um but it wasn't a part of the business
that we actually really enjoyed. It
wasn't what we specialized in and it
wasn't something we wanted to continue
to do. So as our business started to
evolve
no passion in hospitality.
No, we definitely did not have that.
I don't I didn't mind it. Dino doesn't I
I didn't mind the cafe but I'm not
interested in that at all. But what we
haven't spoken about is developing our
online business and that is a huge part
of what we do. That's what we do now. So
so part of um the trials and
tribulations of our opening our own
space is we realized that we needed more
money than what we're actually earning.
Yes. So so I you know,
do the maths. I was doing my personal
training about 40 hours per uh
week of clientele and at that point my
average rate was about 100 bucks an
hour. Someone more, someone less. So
there's a $4,000 a week business which
is seemingly not bad. It's pretty good,
right? Yeah, it was great.
But that's not enough to even pay the
rent. Not enough because we were in a
space that was super expensive. Prime
real estate in the middle of North
Sydney which is a like the city of
Sydney. So it was very expensive and we
needed a lot of money to maintain that.
So that's when we started we identified
the need for more streams of income. So
uh at that point um
that's when education came by accident.
Cuz the memberships were not cutting it.
Memberships weren't cutting it. So so
education that was a savior because that
was quite a frequent um uh like it was
I'd say it was about monthly we'd be
doing seminars around Australia.
Um and that was helping us a lot. Mhm.
Um and
We had our online customized programs at
that point. So we wanted to reach more
women around the world, uh not just the
ones that we could see face to face.
Before we talk about our online program,
we haven't spoken about our Instagram
but that's kind of how we started.
going to say that. So you So how many
followers do you have on Instagram? At
the moment 600 just on just over
600,000. How did you start?
Well, actually it started as a passion
project because Felicia loves loved
design so much and what was the first
image you took?
It was a flatlay of my shoes and I think
it was like a women's health magazine
and a protein bar in the park. Right?
Which has actually been deleted because
I just didn't like it. I deleted
I used like a shitty filter. So so well,
why did you delete it? What's with your
page that's unique? Our page, hold on.
Our page is so carefully curated. It
runs in colors. If you guys don't know,
shameless plug, Base Body Babes on
Instagram. Go and have a look.
scheme are you in now? Reds. Currently
we are in red. But our page runs in in a
color theme. So go back, scroll back as
far as you can and have a look. It was
like uh neutrals like beiges. Neutrals.
Yeah.
And then before beiges? I think it was
blue. Okay, so this is what she does. So
if if you take a if you do a really
amazing lift and you ain't wearing beige
you don't get featured. Or if you do a
really amazing lift and the plates are
blue and not red and we're not in red,
forget about it. You're not being
featured. No. No. Yeah. I know you guys
make me sound so bad and I'm really
trying to make it a little bit
more
cons of this. Pros and cons of this.
Yes. Yeah. Well, Instagram was a
platform that we began for fun. Yeah.
That is where it all started.
Yeah, you weren't thinking of it as a
business
How do you make money from Instagram?
I wasn't going to be an interior
designer anymore but I still liked
beautiful things and I wanted to make
the page aesthetically pleasing. Which
Which you definitely did. But then we
decided that we wanted to um
showcase our our health and fitness kind
of lifestyle and we
we're doing a um
a lift. What were we doing? Chin-ups.
That's what we were doing. We're doing a
chin-up video and then yeah, on rings.
And then we did some little ridiculous
fit chick shuffle at the end of it.
out in a dance. Yes.
There's a little dance. We had music
blaring and I was just recording you and
it was almost as if it was a blooper.
And that's just your personality. It's
like And you pissed yourself laughing so
hard.
Like it was it was I thought it was
actually a a cool moment of the Base
Body Babes. I was watching you girls and
you and you you screwed up the chin-up
somehow and then you just started
dancing. It's like okay, next video.
It's like no no no, that's the video.
That video is sick. That's so cool.
you need to post this and we're like
Post that. It's like just be yourselves.
Like what's wrong these days with just
being yourselves? Like just drop your
guard for a moment. It's like
Finally you posted it.
We did and it went viral.
viral. It went viral. So we're just
watching this page and then back then
Instagram was a little bit different.
It was. And there was like the popular
page and and all of a sudden you you saw
it on the popular page and it it gave
you an alert and said you have made the
popular page. Yeah, it did something
back then and it got insane amounts of
views and likes and engagement.
the notifications on your phone and you
weren't able to use your phone. It's
like you're trying to post that and it's
like notification notification and it's
like cuz you only had a few hundred
followers at you know, to begin with. So
you didn't need it didn't matter if you
had notifications coming through. You
hardly had any. Exactly. Yeah. And when
it went viral you couldn't even use your
phone. No. Until you turn the
notifications off.
And then after that video we started to
create more fun workouts. Like little
sisters together enjoying working out
together. It was awesome. It's it's who
we are. It's what we were doing and we
just started to post them. It So our
videos are quite a few of them went
viral in the end. I remember They were
valuable. You'd give a circuit. You'd do
like a few exercises back to back and
then you'd get off and do the fit chick
shuffle. Fit chick shuffle
which we don't do anymore. Maybe we
should break into a fit chick shuffle
one day. Um but yeah, back then I guess
when Instagram first came out we were
kind of like is it weird to say
pioneering that space? You were in in in
the fitness industry in Australia I
would say. I don't remember.
it would be safe to say that you girls
were were up there with one of the
first. You weren't you definitely
weren't the first. There was a few other
accounts I can't really remember anyone
who was around back then but I'm sure
there would have been. Kayla Itsines
Yeah. We started around the same time
maybe. No, she had she or I remember
when you started she already had a like
a Quite a big following. Maybe a
million. Maybe a million. So there was a
few of us doing it but not many people
popularizing weights for women. So we
were that's always been our focus. We've
never steered away from that.
Exactly. So we yeah, our page started to
grow. So before we knew it we had
100,000 followers, 200,000, 300,000.
Lots of followers then we got hacked.
We'll go into that another day. Then we
built back up again. And yeah, so
600,000 followers later and a thriving
business. So so let's go back and forth.
Now I would I had been in the industry
for probably about 8 years before you
girls had even started with any of these
pages.
Yeah. But because you girls were had
like
like a so much of a better image that I
did, you took off and you were seen as
the industry leaders at the time. And it
was like all right, little old me. I
swear I've been in this industry for so
much more years than you guys. And we
worked together a like the whole way.
like I was more behind the scenes. Like
I was happy like people come up to us.
Let's paint them another picture. People
come up to us and say oh, it's you guys
Base Body Babes. Have Can you take the
photo for us? I'd be I'd be Instagram
husband. I'd take the photo.
The tables have turned. Now they want
photos with my husband. I'm like excuse
me, that's my husband. You cannot have a
photo unless I'm standing next to you.
look at you.
But but anyway, But they do. They want
photos with you. I don't care if that
they don't want photos with us but they
take
my husband. But back then I was prepared
to shut up shop and get Australian
Strength Coach out of the picture.
Mate, you thought you were going to
retire. Whoa. On our fortune.
not just that. It wasn't just like
retire as if I'm just going to sit back
and do nothing. No, but
we would be
Yeah, I I'd always sit behind you know,
in the background and uh you know, we we
I'd always give you guys advice and and
training tips and and and help you guys
with everything that I could.
come to photo shoots with us for like
magazines and everything. We were like
we just need to bring our technician
with us. Yeah, and it worked well.
for when they're on the street
Yeah, shoots. And it worked well. You
know, you'd sit there and and for each
of the exercises, like I'd be behind the
camera saying, you know, put your knee
here, look here, eyes up, or hands here,
whatever
always still need.
Yeah, which we That's right. That's
right. We still do. But But that's what
I mean. But back at that point, like
Base Body Babes, or was it Fit Chicks at
that point? Whoever Whoever you girls
were were kicking ass, were were very
much industry leaders. We'd walk through
the fitness expos, and women would cry.
Oh
my god, my heart.
understand that. I don't understand
that.
It's so sweet.
And then And then they get me to And
then they get me to take a freaking
photo
to make sure I'm out of the photo and
take the photo with
So cute.
Really really sweet. So So that was That
was Base Body Babes, really really
popular. Um
The fitness industry has changed a lot.
why I thought it would like because you
guys girls were the pioneers in this
space, I thought that it would be a
really really
easy transition to get females to come
along with us because you guys had so
much popularity that you guys were able
to get women in the same room with us,
buff heads. So that's why that I used to
say, I bring the buff head factor and
you guys bring the cool factor. You're
so cool.
Well,
thanks.
a buff head. You're like the smartest
person we know. Yeah, but buff head
doesn't mean like smart person, meat
head. Meat head.
Yeah. Not buff head. Yeah, but like you
know, like muscle head. What do you
mean?
smart. Thanks. It's like how your mom
calls you handsome.
Yeah.
calls you smart.
Yeah, you're smart and handsome.
You're both.
I'll accept it. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. So So moving forward. So
this was us in our gym space. Now, when
we opened up in North Sydney, we
uh signed the lease with um no. So
basically you sign a lease usually with
a a an extension at the end, the option
to sign on at the end of the lease.
Mhm. Um in this case we weren't given an
option. It was a 5-year lease, and they
basically said to us, "We're We're
selling the building, and we don't know
what the new building owner wants to do
with it, so we can't give you an option.
It's 5 years, and if the next building
owner wants to give you an option, it's
up to them."
New building owner bought it. Long story
short, they didn't give us the option.
They knocked down the building. So we
had to be out of there in 5 years. This
was last year. This was last year. This
is why there's no longer
Yeah, so so this is why we had to shut
the shop, and everyone in the building
had to shut the shop. Um so so we were
pretty much kicked out of of North
Sydney.
So it was just shy of 5 years being
there.
Yeah, it was like 4 years and 9 months
or something like that.
Yeah. And and this is where This is a
few of the lessons that we had learned
uh coming into Marrickville, was that
the type of memberships that we had, it
wasn't enough to to create a really
really successful business or or create
a huge income from. So the maximum
amount of members that we were able to
have would have been about 80. I think
that's the most we ever got to at North
Sydney.
Mhm. And you know, think about how much
money you can get from these guys. What
was the membership fee? It's like 40
bucks a week or something like that.
Yeah. And it was definitely not enough
to cover our rent.
No. So so we had to create And this is
where we had to create uh the the
online.
So So the online was was very much a
savior.
So So
that was a disaster within itself, but
it was a
It was a blessing in disguise.
programs. So we trained women online,
and we personally wrote all of their
programs. So none of them were generic.
Everyone got an individualized program,
and we would work with them really
closely online, and we would run 4-week
phases for our online girls. It got to
the point where we just couldn't manage
that many women, so we needed to come up
with more of a generic plan that we
could sell to the masses, which we did.
It took us quite a while to develop, and
we had a web developer come on board,
and we developed a website, and it was
all amazing. We were super excited to
get it going, and then he decided that
Yeah, like a day before we were about to
launch that he couldn't complete the
job, and we weren't going to launch
properly, and
It wasn't a day. So it's a couple of
weeks. Basically you'd promised to
launch it on the 1st of January.
That's right. Yes. I think it was 2016.
Christmas because uh and I know it was
more than a day because they were gone
on Christmas holiday. They didn't turn
New Year's Eve. Yeah.
So So they It was like 2 weeks before
the end of the year, and they basically
said, "Okay, so we're shutting up shop,
and we've got no one that's going to be
working, so we're probably going to be
able to release yours, you know, end of
January."
And you're like, um Launch at least now.
Everything was signed,
paid for, agreed upon.
And we had been marketing it as well to
January 1 launch date.
That's right. So
So we after a bit of back and forth, we
have someone called James who works with
us, our office right-hand man, and him
and I worked tirelessly to get the
website completed and ready for launch
on January 1st, I think it was 2016.
had to learn how to code. We had to
learn how to code. We had to learn how
to build websites, and we ended up
teaching ourselves, which was great.
Very beneficial moving forward. So we
did that. We ended up launching.
Everything was fabulous, and Base Body
Babes online training program was born
with our nutrition program as well. It
still exists, and it's a great platform
for women to learn how to lift weights.
We have lots of tutorials and video
tutorials of us talking and explaining
each exercise, and we run our phases in
4-week blocks. And let's let's swap over
a bit. So when you had this existing, it
was so great that you said, "Okay, we
know how to make these websites. Let's
just make one for Australian Strength
Coach."
Yeah.
And at that point I thought You were
only doing customized programs.
I was already doing. It's like, "Why are
you giving me more jobs?" Like, "No, I
I've got my I've got my thing, and just
let me be." And you're like, "No, I
think it's going to be really
successful. I think it's going to get a
lot of great traction."
And I thought, "You know what? Just
please don't bother me with it. Go and
freaking make it. Fine."
That's just like when we were telling
you to get on Instagram, and you didn't
want to get on it. And now look at you.
You post way more than us.
Fully. Fully.
I'm I'm I'm an Insta addict.
You love it, good old Insta.
look, it's where my business comes from.
I make my money from Instagram. It's not
like Monopoly money. It's actual money,
and it's an actual business, and this is
the way of the future. Social media um
it has a point.
So there you go. Another tip, step
outside of the box. Yeah. And this is
This is 2020, and people think it's
childish because, you know, you're
sitting in your phone, and this is what
we tell our kids, "Get your head out of
the technology." But that's what's
making our money.
There is definitely a time and place,
and and this is what where my entire
business comes from, actually. And it's
how we developed both of our brands.
Yeah. So So we've got both of our
online, which was basically a savior. So
now
which
Yeah, plug plug. Let's Let's Let's move
forward. I don't want it to be 2000 now.
But we've we've got those businesses,
and this is where we realized that that
stream of income was going to allow us
to have the business that we wanted,
which was to not actually have the
members. Mhm. So have a look behind us.
This is a peak hour. We've got no one
here. No one trains here except for us
and our team of athletes, and it's for
us to create amazing content and to
educate and hold seminars
um for for not just Think about how many
people face-to-face, up to 60. What
about how many followers around the
world? So currently it's like there's a
lot of bigger accounts than myself, but
still I've got enough followers. I've
got 181,000 followers, which is enough
to to create a successful business. You
guys have 600,000, which is definitely
more than 180, so obviously more than
enough to to create a successful
business. Um and we have a lot more
access to more people when we do it this
way. Yeah. We've employed a full-time
videographer. He's in the background
over there now.
Big big Benny our base.
So So we've got him here full-time.
Um you know, ready for us to create
content. So if we have an amazing
athlete or who whomever, whatever type
of guest that we have in here,
Benny's ready with the camera. Hey
Benny, come out here. He runs out with
his camera, and and he's on. He's on.
And, you know, or if someone's doing a
lift, it's like I don't know what He'll
come in. I'll see him first thing in the
morning. Hey, anything on today, Bas?
It's like, "Nah, I don't think
anything's happening." And then all of a
sudden uh you know, something happened,
and we're lifting something heavy.
Benny, and he's ready. Benny is always
ready. He's Benny Benny sneaky.
So So Yeah, like now he's recording on
his on his Instagram. He'll post that
one. So So this is our space now. So
this is the business it's evolved from.
Let's Let's go back. It's evolved from
the gym space with members and PT and
group classes and cafes Mhm. to
a place for us. a a empty gym
with the best of best equipment money
could buy. No one with their grubby paws
on my Eleiko, bending my bars. Yeah. You
know, the the place is kept immaculately
tidy.
Half not half, a third of the space is
dedicated to office space to run our
online businesses. Our staff are here
for our administration work and the
managerial work more than the gym
because we don't actually have any
coaches anymore. The money's made on the
Except for upstairs. We're not going to
talk about the studio because we do
still talk about the studio.
But for Base Gym itself, let's maybe
talk a little bit about what it was like
running a gym, but then maintaining our
type of business where we had
endorsements.
Why Oh. Okay, that was That was
another stream of income that was hugely
handy. And this is when I was about to
tell you the pros and cons of of having
a beautifully curated Instagram page.
The cons were you couldn't just do a
sick lift and get posted and shared on
Base Body Babes' page. Never. However,
you get
So So Coach Coach posted you. It was
called the Jenny Jay Show. That was
Yeah, I used to I used to do Jenny Jay.
I think we need to
Jenny Jay needs to be squatting. Oh,
listen here, mate. Listen here. I'm
listening. Come on. I'm listening. Big
big big big big G's, otherwise you're
not getting on. Where are we at with
that half half your body weight? You
used to. So that's how we used to train
together. That was a really cool thing.
That was so cool.
Yeah. So So if I I was exactly half your
body weight at the time. You're a bit
bigger now. It's not fair. Ah, it's not
fair. It's not fair. We'll go back and
pretend you're 100 kilos.
We'll go back. So, back then when we
were training together so frequently, I
was twice your size and therefore had to
lift twice your weight. Correct.
And we were very much on par. I was very
much on par with your bench with your
squat.
better. Better at deadlifting? Yes.
Squatting? We were on par. Yeah.
Bench press I kick your ass.
Right-o.
Bench press sucks. I'll give you that.
See that? Bench press sucks. No one
cares how much you bench. No one cares
how much you bench. It's true. You know
what I mean? Except for boys Not even.
No, guys don't care either. I post a
bench press I don't even on my on my
page. I bench press 245 kg.
bench presser.
Right. And you know how many people like
it? Like not not many people. Not many
people care.
Yours is crazy.
a big squat and so many people love it.
Anyway. Anyway. And And you said but
that's how we used to train. So, Dinny
Jai was 50 kilos, I was 100. Your squat
at that time was 140 raw with sleeves. I
was about 280 at that point.
Yeah. Uh your deadlift was thr- was 160.
I was less I was 310. So, you're ahead
of me. Yeah, I was like 3.2 times my
body weight.
way of training. I really enjoyed that
back when you were cool, Dinny. Oh, get
out. Anyway, bring back the Dinny Jai
show.
so the the cons were you couldn't just,
you know, post your your So, documenting
is a kind of a a way of of really
successfully running a a an Instagram
page. You just do something that's cool.
You document it and it's of of value to
some people, some of your audience. But
that's not what your page was about. It
was about graduating
everything to do with health and
fitness. And then we kind of slot in
fashion, food, and lifestyle because
that's that was definitely a passion of
ours. Yeah, we just wanted to encompass
all things of living a healthy and fit
lifestyle. But but the way that you
displayed it was in such a way that
companies wanted to work with you.
Exactly. So, having such a beautifully
beautifully curated page, a lot of
brands wanted to work with us because
they could employ us to
What sort of brands?
We've worked with them all. Seriously.
Microsoft.
Like everyone. Nike, Adidas, like every
big brand.
even isn't even Although we were in the
fitness space cuz that was a
It was a text space. But they were
literally just like Food Food brands,
supplement companies.
Forever 21, active wear brand you have
ever heard of, we've worked with them.
Yeah. So, yeah, basically they would
employ us to help promote their brand
and we did a pretty good job, we think,
of doing that. We had our own
photographer and
Because everything was carefully
curated, we were able to seamlessly
integrate these campaigns into our
Instagram page, Yeah.
look salesy. It didn't appear Yeah, you
know, too pushy, too salesy.
hire um fitness influencers or digital
influencers to promote their brand, like
a lot of the time they have to get
photographers and videographers and
stylists and makeup artists and all of
that. We were doing it all ourselves
Yeah, we did have a uh photographer. My
best friend Vanessa was photographing us
at the time and Yeah, but we had our own
little team going on and we had We had
everything. Yeah. Yeah, so I was I was
the tech support behind the behind the
scenes. But yeah, we had we had we had
everything. So, a company would come to
you. They wouldn't come to a um What
What are they called? The middleman? The
the An agency.
Like an a like an agency.
you you were your own agency.
We were. Yeah. And you've got pretty
good at that.
said this, you know, we took it took a
long time for us to define our roles in
the business, but I like to do the
business side of things, whereas Felicia
is the creative brain behind our baby.
And as long as we're still training and
eating the way we do, we're able to put
out really good content. So, it kind of
just worked really well. Our synergy has
always been awesome together and we're
sisters, so we work really well
together. We do fight. We'll go into
this another time. But yeah, generally
having the business the three of us has
always worked really really well. So,
yeah, that was just another part,
endorsements. It is a really big part of
our business. We have worked with all
sorts of brands and we will continue to
work with all sorts of brands
Meanwhile, I think I'm pretty cool, but
I've not been endorsed by one product.
Do you know what? You have. People send
you stuff. They do send you stuff. But
we haven't put a media kit out there.
We're developing a media kit.
up. Hey hey, it's under construction.
We're about to pimp you out, mate. Just
hold your horses. I swear I thought I'd
been in business with these girls for
years now.
Look, we're always pimping you out.
Doing other things. And they told me to
hold my horses. No, but like this is the
thing.
Pimp me out. You're creating insane
content.
this is the difference in our different
types of of um the the way that we
create our social media pages, which is
the way that we advertise our brands,
the way that we provide um content and
and create income for ourselves
Yeah. is
you've got a completely different
audience to me.
Yeah, we do.
We work together. We work together, but
but actually a lot of them do cross
over, but interestingly we both have the
same training philosophy. So, we both
are doing the same things. We've got
selfie time over here now.
Oh, you can keep talking.
Yeah, I'm I I I have I haven't stopped,
don't you worry. So, so we're like
the way that the girls create their
programs is the same way that I create
my program.
Yeah. Who would have thought? So, we're
all working together but
always write our programs kind of all
together. Yeah, it's a it's a system
that we have in place and for those of
us who follow, you'll know what our
system is. We'll go into that at another
time. So, we were just talking about the
different types of audiences that we
have. So, so you girls have, you know,
pretty creative pictures and I have I'm
just as real as it gets. Like I put my
grill up in in my phone every day.
We are real. We are who we are.
But like okay, let's be real right now.
We're sitting here with a face full of
makeup
I don't have makeup.
But we had a photo shoot with Women's
Health and that's just our life. We do
have cool things that go on and
sometimes we do need to be like
dressed up, Okay, so
done up, like all of those things. We
are still who we are.
I wasn't knocking it, but I'm just
saying it's two different brands. It is.
We're delivering the same product
though, which is the same message with
health and fitness.
We're just cuter.
That's subjective.
Hey.
BUT HEY, LET'S TALK about let's actually
talk about audience. Our audience
I format. Ben. Ben, what's going on with
you, mate?
effect to go like
[__] MY LIFE?
WE HAVE TO MAKE THAT ONE.
WE HAVE TO MAKE ONE.
COMING SOON. OKAY. OKAY, let's let's
move forward. Okay, so you know what? I
think we've given a pretty good summary
as to who we are and kind of what we do.
Yeah, do you guys know who we are? So,
so you girls are Base Body Babes. I am
strength strength strength personal
strength strength coaches. But but
actually we don't really do much
personal training. Dinny does love love
to do the interaction
face-to-face.
a good face-to-face. But she has she has
heaps of faces that she's face-to-face
with. She's got her whole crew and
community because it's it's group
classes.
It is. And that still exists. And that
still exists.
Yes. And and um for me, I do love
face-to-face as well, so do you,
Felicia. We do have our amazing team,
but that's kind of who we work with.
the scenes on the You're very much
behind the scenes and I'm still very
hands-on in my job. I'm still very
physical. I'm still a professional plate
loader um and and we're we're
physical all day long. I would just like
to confirm the reason I pulled back off
doing face-to-faces because I have a
child and I have a husband and Dinny
doesn't.
She's got a little bit more time up her
sleeve. I don't have the time literally
when you're a working mom and as a PT,
your main clients are early morning and
night times and that's the time I want
to get my daughter ready for school and
pick her up in the afternoon. So, for
for me, by the time I do school
drop-off, 9:30 till 2:00, that's all
I've got to train myself, get work done.
It's like I can't train people in that
time. So, we can talk about being a
working mom in the fitness industry
another time or just being a working mom
in Well, what we can talk about now.
Let's give some value. Why don't we give
some tips? I don't want to step outside
of my lane and and teach you guys how to
run a good mechanic shop or a commercial
business space because that's not what
we do. No. What we do is what we do,
which is a small gym, Mhm. um online
business. online business We are going
very well in the fitness industry. Look,
I'm not going to sit here and brag and
say, you know, we're sweet to retire
now. It's not like that at all. Um but
but we are going very well and we've
we've survived uh together as a team, as
a partnership um for over 6 years now,
all three of us and we
8 years. 7. When did we open Base Gym?
So, that's the first time. Let's get
technical, bro.
Okay.
So, so you guys
Yeah, yeah, must be. So, we're So, it's
been But but Dinny and I have been doing
Base Body Babes with Supermums in
Training for This is our 8th year. Was I
in business with you then? Yes. Well,
like kind of. We've been doing business
since way back. Okay, so we want to give
you guys our top three tips for opening
a small to medium size gym / fitness
business. Yeah, let's give tips on on
getting started, kicking ass I'll give
you tip number one. in our space.
Start-up costs. Clear. That's a that's a
that's a very important tip.
It is. Like we don't want to say that
you have to have money to start a
business, but if you want to open a
boutique facility, there are costs
involved.
Absolutely. I mean,
how much was the fit-out for the Base
Gym?
We've got two different styles of gyms.
So, Base Gym is is the equipment that
you see here.
one. Yeah, so we've got we've got um
professional style barbells and plates
and competition calibrated plates.
Yeah. We've got machines.
Yeah. We've got the most expensive
dumbbells that money can buy. Yeah. Um
that was not entirely necessary to go to
that level. No. But let's just talk
about what that cost us. So,
I think Base cost us about close to half
a million dollars.
Yeah, we It was like 400,000.
say I'd say we needed half a million to
start Base.
Which is insane. It's it's insane. To
start a To think about how do you start
a business with 5 million? With with
half a million. Well, well we'd been in
business for 10 years before that. So,
we all had So, you girls had a stream of
income
Yeah, we did. with with with your uh
boot camps and with your endorsements.
And I had a stream of income with my um
personal training. So, so we didn't come
in with nothing. And we borrowed. And we
borrowed.
Yes, we had to borrow.
is not easy because banks don't want to
lend money to personal trainers.
Yeah, no. But then we had the other gym,
the the female only studio, which was a
different setup all together. So, I
think that cost probably half the amount
as
Cuz you didn't have you didn't have the
machines. It's very much a CrossFit set
set Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
that's right.
So, what what have you got in your gym?
So, we've got the basic rig. We've got
all our barbells. We've got some Eleiko
um barbells in there as well. But
they're all Eleiko, but they're the
CrossFit range. They're not the
professional caliber equipment.
That's right. But we have less um
machines. So, we've got
More open space.
Yeah. We've got our our equipment.
how much did that cost? So, so when we
talk equipment, it says equipment, but
then we've got flooring, bathrooms.
Yeah. The actual renovations of the
space.
It's not just And not only that, there's
like crazy building requirements. I
remember when we opened Base Gym North
Sydney first, and we needed to put in
the disabled toilets.
Oh, yeah. Council approvals and
Yeah. So, there was all of your
certifiers. And there was so much
administration. It was really
Legal costs. Exactly. So, not only was
there the equipment costs, the
renovation costs, the administration
costs with the lawyers, the solicitors,
the council approvals, our insurances,
and all that kind of stuff. Then there
was the rent. Paying rent while you're
doing it.
Paying rent while you're doing it.
at least a 6-month procedure.
Like you can't just stop paying your
rent, right?
No, you got to pay Just cuz you're
building. 6 months That's right. Someone
needs to get paid.
Exactly. So, then there was the rent. Um
So, that's where that's where North
Sydney was half a mil
Exactly. to get started. But but also
only that, like then you need a little
bit of leftover money in the piggy bank
because how do you live? Yeah, because
you've got to start from scratch again.
That's right.
And you've got to build your new client
base. So, so one big thing that I
noticed when people starting off in
business is they don't have money in
their piggy bank, and they come across
as very desperate. Yeah.
can see that a mile away. When a new
customer comes in the door and you're
desperate for them, it scares them off.
So, something that we've been lucky to
have was was a base There we say it
again. We had a base. We had our
business already. We had income. Yeah.
And we weren't as desperate for clients.
It's not that we hated people or we were
trying to shoo people away. We just
didn't We're not really that salesy. We
weren't forcing people to come to us.
Yeah. So, so having the piggy bank is is
overlooked a lot of times.
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So, yeah,
startup cost is a big thing, I suppose,
if you want to start a small um gym.
Definitely have some money in the bank
before you get started. Have a plan.
Took a good 5 years for all of those um
leases to finish.
Yeah. So, it was they pretty much all
stood the time of us being in that
space. So, now
We own everything.
We own everything, which is great. So,
that's been a massive help. We can
actually breathe a little bit since we
moved out of Base Gym North Sydney. But
there are a lot of people out there that
do not necessarily have the funds or
want to borrow to start up a new
so let's let's come back there. But but
we said half a million for I don't want
everyone to go out there and think they
need half a million to open a space.
No, this is what we had for our
equipment and
How much was the CrossFit style setup?
So, you don't have to
Say 100. 150? I'm going to say two. We
spent 200,000 on that.
with piggy bank Mhm. with um the
renovations, bathrooms
Yeah. So, so would you say about two
200,000 doesn't get you far. It can get
you a pretty great space, but that's not
necessarily the best of the best
equipment. It's an open space CrossFit
style rigs Yeah. uh sled track
Exactly. a few little bits and pieces,
cardio machines. Right, 200k. That's
still a bit of money.
It is. for a startup.
Yeah.
Okay, so that's tip number one.
Yeah. Okay. So, let's And don't be
afraid of of getting business advice. If
you can find a mentor Oh, get help
wherever you can. Don't be too proud.
Get help wherever you can. Yeah. Yeah.
Okay, so now there are so many people in
the world who might not necessarily have
the funds to start up a business, but I
guess with technology now we're in a day
and age where creating cool brands is
actually quite easy if you are smart and
you do it the right way.
why? Why?
Cuz it's free. It can be free. It can be
free. So, our top tip number two is
build your brand. So, for us
if you don't have a gym. So, you don't
have to have a gym to start a business.
You definitely don't need to have a gym.
It it did help us because we were able
to have a place that we could create
content out of, but people can create
content out of a normal commercial gym.
So, if you are young or new into the
industry and you don't have the funds
and you don't want to spend money on
opening your own gym because let's be
real, you don't need a gym. Like even
for us, we don't need a gym now. We want
it for our own selfish reasons, but we
could definitely be doing what we do
without a gym. We could be doing
It's possible to the to the degree that
we're doing it, I I don't think it's
possible. Not so much for us, but like a
lot of people can create a great
successful fitness brand out without
their own gym. Uh 100%
I've seen it a number of times. Not
everyone can be at the top of the
industry, but No, but they can make good
money. They can have a successful
business. They can be popular on social
media. They can have, you know, work
with great brands.
And they don't need their own space. So,
let's talk about that. So, yes, it's
free. The resources are there. Whether
it is Instagram, that's where we
started. YouTube, TikTok
LinkedIn Facebook Podcast
is there? Podcasts now. Like there are
so many amazing platforms that you can
use to build your brand. And for us, we
did start out with Instagram. We just
personally liked Instagram, especially
when they allowed videos to be posted on
there as well, and it wasn't just for
still still images. So, yeah, our tip is
start to build your brand. Our top tips
for building your brand on social media
would be to post frequently. They say if
you listen to Gary V, which we all love
Gary V
he is like 50 posts a day across all of
your channels. Okay, that's extreme. We
personally don't even do that, but it is
being consistent and being regular. So,
posting every day is important. You want
to be relevant in your field, whatever
that may be.
I've started to do with that is I post
on my main page, I post on my stories,
and I post at Instagram live.
Live, which we are yet to do the live,
but we're always trying to do a post and
a story daily. And now that weekly
YouTube weekly YouTube
weekly podcast now. We're going to
commit to weekly. We're going to commit
to you every week.
Yes, we are. So, it is about being
consistent with your content creation.
It is about giving value. You want to
give good value whenever you're putting
out any content. So, be very um
conscious of that. Be educational.
People love education now. And be
yourself.
that a lot of people upcoming, it's like
um you know, I don't want to sit there
and be so narcissistic as to believe
they're all copying me, but I do see
some people copying us. And it's like,
"Hey, you know what? You know what? I'm
already doing this." And there's other
really successful people like let them
do that. You can do you as well, and I'm
sure that you are very unique in your
own way, and you've got something
amazing to offer. As long And this is
where we move on to tip number three.
Be a good product. If you are a good
product then you can just be yourself.
If you find that you have to be someone
else, you're obviously not good enough.
Okay, I'm not trying to put you down and
say you're not good enough. You've got
the potential to be good enough. Trust
me. So, how do you be good? Okay, here's
a few tips. If you want to
sell If you want to make money off
giving people six-packs, have a
six-pack. If you want to make money off
getting people strong, be strong. If you
want to uh make money off being good at
a whatever sport it is, whether it's
martial arts or rugby, be good at those
sports. Understand uh you know, get
under the barbell. Uh spend time in the
trenches. Experience is hugely valuable.
A lot of people ask me uh you know,
where I taught myself everything that I
know. Oh man, do you know how much hours
daily I've spent under the barbell
trying all of the techniques that I've
that I teach people. Practice what you
preach. Practice what you preach. So,
So, being a good product So, study. Earn
more. Learn more to earn more. Mhm. So,
so I have and and you girls as well, we
have not stopped studying. So, even, you
know, the degrees I That's what I love
about you guys. You guys have degrees in
completely different fields, but you use
them.
Yeah.
There's a huge carryover from our
degrees in what we're doing now. So, so
everything that you've learnt in your
life will teach you. I used to be in
sales. So, when I was still school, I
was a mobile phone sales person. And I
keep on I always say I hate I don't want
to be too salesy. And I said that to a
very successful uh building um manager.
He was a he was a building owner, a
commercial It was a a publicly listed
company. And I said that to him. I said,
"Look, I I don't want to be salesy. I
hate sales, you know, although I'm good
at it." He said to me, "You need to sell
for the rest of your life." Mhm. It's
like, yeah.
You're you're you are right. Okay. Okay,
but but be good at what you do. Okay, if
you want to sell something, be good at
whatever you're trying to sell.
need to to respect you as their teacher.
Like we're here to educate. As coaches,
we're here to teach and give people the
tools that they need. So, you need to be
a really good example. So, always lead
by example.
Absolutely. I hope you like our top
tips. I think they're pretty valuable
top tips. There's there's so many tips,
but I think I think
This is a short a shortened version of
our tips of what's to come. We're going
to We could do a whole episode on just
business. This was Today was just about
us.
saying hello to you and welcome to
What's our podcast called? Why do you
keep forgetting it? It is called
many names we have? I have so many.
Back to Base. Back to Base. Yeah. The
podcast. The podcast. The podcast. Or or
it can be the Back to Base podcast, but
I feel like when we're saying, "Welcome
back to Base." Anyway, guys, we really
hope you've enjoyed our episode of Our
first episode our first episode of Back
to Base the podcast. We have
greatly enjoyed sharing our story with
you guys, and we're really looking
forward to some amazing things coming in
the near future. Let's talk about the
near future.
So, I'll tell you something that I'm
very very excited about. Tomorrow we're
all flying and
We're flying. and we're we're going
together. We're going to Ohio. Ohio.
Columbus Ohio for the Arnolds. And when
we're over there, so why are we over
there?
We are going for our
big man Thor. So so for those I didn't
even say this in my in in who are we but
he is a huge part of our Oh, our
audience is going to hear a lot about
Thor. Uh he's a huge part of who we are.
He's a huge part of of my success in the
industry. I coach Hafthor Björnsson and
I've been doing that since 2016.
And that was largely to thank for the
way he was as well. So that's a whole
another episode we'll talk about
Hafthor. Um but but we it was a a team
effort as to how he became part of um
our story and yeah, tomorrow we're going
to go to Columbus Ohio to support him at
the Arnolds
sports festival in his strongman
competition where he's going to do
amazing things as he always does and we
are on our way over there and actually
he's going to be our very first guest.
So stay tuned for that. Hafthor
Björnsson will be guest on our second
episode ever. Hopefully we'll interview
him after the competition and hopefully
I'm very confident we'll have some great
news and that that great news this is
going to be so he's won the Arnolds two
times. So I'm not going to speak too
soon. We'll see where he places after
this. I am very confident But he's an
amazing athlete. I don't this is not
going to go live before the Arnolds.
And we'll go live just after the Arnolds
and then straight after that we will be
getting our second episode up. So stay
tuned for that.
we're going to come to you guys with
someone new and amazing and
Oh and our next guest after that is like
just as cool in our eyes. It's it's a
chick. It's a female version of Hafthor.
I'm sure you guys can guess who it is.
She's one of our favorite people of all
time.
So yeah, we've got lots of great things
coming but we are flying out tomorrow so
we have to love you and leave you but
thank you so much for listening to back
to base the podcast. We have enjoyed
every moment of today's conversation and
we can't wait to have many more chats
with some very cool people. So
Thanks guys. That was fun.
fun. I loved it and I look forward to
traveling tomorrow. I look forward to
our next podcast and I hope you guys
enjoyed it. Every time we we come on
here we're going to give you guys some
of our top tips for whatever the topic
is that we're going to be discussing so
I hope you guys tune in.
And if there are any topics you would
like to hear about or anything you want
to hear from us, please DM us or I don't
know how we do it with this podcast
game. We're very new to this but I'm
sure there's somewhere where you can
drop comments and let us know what you
want to hear from us. So
let's do this.
See you guys. Thank you so much.
Thanks everyone.
Thanks guys. Bye.